They later moved to the North Gate area and
occupied a building that had been moved from
Victoria Air Force Base, a chapel from that base.
The other First Baptist Church was at the North
Gate, A&M Methodist Church, St. Mary's Catholic
Church. Later churches came in were Church of
Christ, and most of those have relocated from the
North Gate area. Did your family, were they church
attenders? My father at the First Baptist Church
was on the board of trustees there. They
originally organized from a building on the
campus and met, I believe, in the E.E. building
lecture room and then later moved off to the
campus. Reverend R.L. Brown was the first member.
pastor of that church and he would come by and see
Papa for church activities while we lived on the
campus there. Now I'm guessing that during that
era most of the campus families were mainline
Protestants. Is that? I would, I'm trying to, and
I'm going to say I know a number of Baptist families
that went to church in Bryan at First Baptist
Church. And I guess, and there were a number of
Methodists. The Episcopal Church was not
organized. It later was organized and had a chapel
across from Duncan Field on Jersey Street. George
Bush. George Bush Drive. And there was a big
delegation of Catholic students, though, that
were served through St. Joseph Church in Bryan.
And then St. Mary's. Where was that? St. Mary's. Do
you remember during those growing up years any
Jewish member of the faculty or staff? Yes, sir.
Mr. Halperin in the math department was a little
man. And I believe he was Jewish. So I presume then
he went all the way to Bryan to worship. He must have
because they had, well, later they did have the
Hillel Foundation south of campus. But at that
time when I was growing up, they didn't have it. Do
you by chance remember any
comparatively outspoken non-believer? Was
there any?
What I'm assuming is that in that era, religion was
one of the comparative normal parts of the routine
of the campus. Of campus life, that's true. No,
sir, I really don't. You know, Mr. Cashin was head
of the YMCA. M.L. Cashin was a first secretary that
I remember, and then Mr. Gay followed him. Gordon
Gay. Please describe your memory of Mr. Cashin. He
was a fine gentleman. He was known as a true
believer. And one of the stories about Red Cashin
is he asked his daddy, why did you always pray for
A&M after every prayer you read from here at home?
Getting mixed up, you know, all men with A&M.
Now the Cashin boys, are they your
contemporaries? Jimmy is
three or four years younger than I am, and Mason
must be about 10 years younger, something like
that. All right, now, you called him Mason. Mason
Lee. Yes. That was what ML called Red. When did he
become known as Red? Well, he was always
red-headed. I know. So as a little bitty? Yeah, as a
kid, he was Red. Did you have a nickname? Uh, D.B.,
uh... And then Dusty Butt got fitted because of our
stature. That was Papa's nickname. And I assumed
that, but outside of that. All right. Did your dad,
somebody told me that they thought sometimes when
he would erase the board, he would unconsciously
kind of rub his hand on the side of his trousers and
maybe get a little chalk dust. Yeah. ah i don't i
don't recall that no i really don't but i do recall
one professor that i had and that was when i went to a
m and that was mr bob lyle in the math department
that he would come in neatly dressed with the tie
and shirt and then he would start writing on the
board and by the time the session was over his tie
would be down and chalk dust would be all over him
and the board would be full did he have a nickname i
don't think so but he was he was a good teacher yes
ma'am
let's go back to elementary school Were there any
important extracurricular activities that you
remember from your elementary school days? The
extracurricular activities centered around
what we called the Interscholastic League County
Meets. Declamation contests,
softball, track, They were the spring event,
actually. Now, this was in addition to organized
football and basketball. It didn't go, it wasn't
near the program that there is today. It was on an
interscholastic league meet where all of the
county schools would have a meet at a certain place
and they would have competitions. And I remember
specifically that I would participate in
declamation contests. And one of my main
adversaries was John Lawrence III in Bryan. And we
met numerous times at those particular meets.
Were there many associations between you
elementary college station kids and the Bryan
kids? Yes. We would go to the same dances.
We were known as a crowd. That meant your age group
was a crowd. And Bryan College Station would go
together. Surely would. Of course, the main
activity would be in Bryan. But we would have
dances. And we would attend. And the College
Station group was included. And in Bryan were
included also some College Station dancers. All
right, still in the elementary years, where did
your mom do her grocery shopping? At Luke and
Charlie's at the North Gate, which you could walk
out of our back door and walk across the railroad
and the street, and you could go get a loaf of bread
if it was needed. But that was the main. And then
there was also a community grocery store on
campus.
But it actually, it had delivery. And one of the
delivery men was named Graves, and at one time he
drove a little horse-drawn wagon. Did the college
operate that community store? It was operated by
someone else. I don't think it was operated
directly by the college. But the college did have
milk delivery in the morning from the F&B station.
And then the creamery also had dairy products. But
we did shop in, I mean grocery shopping was at the
North Gate. Let's see, did your, your family had a
car as your memory begins? We didn't have a car
until 1935 or so and we used the
Bryan College Station, what did they call that
traction company? The trolley? It was the trolley
first and then it later became a bus line after the
trolley went out. Was the trolley within your
memory or had it stopped? I remember riding it on
occasion vividly, but I know where the station was
behind the chapel, the campus chapel. now and it
entered not far from us where we live down at the but
where the mr. boy it's house was on the corner there
where the campus can't think of that theater uh
movie was and that it came onto the campus then and
rode around about to the chapel but uh i'm more
memory of the uh bus lines about how frequently did
the on the hours on the hour do you remember what
what the fair was something like uh 25 cents round
trip, 10 or 15 cents one way, something like that.
And downtown Bryan was a busy place. Absolutely.
That was the center of business activity, you see,
in most of the stores. The bus line went to just a
block from Main Street at the old, well, the Eagle
Building at one time was there as the newest thing
closest to it. And it was just on, I forgot the name
of it, but it was just a block from Main Street.
Describe during the pre-World War II days, in the
late 30s, describe downtown Bryan on a Saturday
afternoon. Quite busy. The movies were, it had
three movies. They had the Queen, the Dixie, and
the Palace. All right there in one block, two on one
side of the street and one on the other. And it was
quite a place. Most students would go to town at
that time in shock. And everybody, all local
citizens as well, would go. I remember one thing,
Allen Academy would not go to town on Saturday.
That's why they gave those students off on Monday.
when nobody was downtown because it was so busy.
They would permit, they would give their students
Monday off instead of Saturday to prevent any kind
of conflict or anything like that. And it was more
advantageous for them because there were fewer
folks. What was the five and ten cent downtown?
F.W. Woolworth and Perry Brothers. And of course,
Woolworth later became in the center block there.
But of course, it's been closed for a number of
years. Menswear? A&M Waldrop. A&M Waldrop and
Company. They had a college store and a brine
store. Waldrop sold uniforms primarily out at
college, and they were at the North Gate. And then
they had the downtown store was their main store.
Ladieswear.
As I recall, the first ladieswear was the Smart
Shop.
That was...
I can't think of who organized that, but that was
the first ladies ready to wear. And then there was
Eugene Edge on the corner. And
if a family went out to eat, where would they go?
They would primarily go to the Aggieland Inn,
which was on the campus and had a nice restaurant,
cafe, because it was run by the mess hall. And that
would be a place you could go to eat. Now, as your
memory begins, was Mr. Duncan in charge of food?
The mess hall. Describe him. He was a very
impressive-looking gentleman, gray-haired,
And I remember him, I guess, primarily as being a
devoted mason, and on certain occasions he would
put his Knight Templar uniform on and go to Bryan
for communications. The
Sebesa Dining Hall was a center not only of eating
but of social events I know. Did you and your family
ever eat at Sebesa when you were in high school?
Only on special occasions there would be, but I
don't recall any until after I went to A&M. All
right, back to your elementary days. Are there
some teachers that you would like to mention and
express your gratitude for them? Yes, I remember
one in particular, Mrs. Henrietta C. Doak, Dr.
Doak's wife, who lived on campus with the Boltons,
which was just walking distance to grammar
school. She taught me in the seventh grade and was
an excellent teacher. She later had the
opportunity to teach my children at Sol Ross
Elementary School in Bryan after she had retired
once from Consolidated. And had gone to Snook, I
think, and retired there, and then had come back to
teaching. She was a long-time teacher. And Dr.
Doak was head of the biology department. And we
lived in the same area with them in South Oakwood.
And I remember he was a great gardener and would
give us some of his of production. We enjoyed that.
But she was a fine teacher. Then another high
school teacher was Mrs. Ethel Walton Burgess. She
taught English and she was, I had a very hard time
getting a acceptable grade at home in English. But
she was a good teacher.
You had a built-in English teacher. I had one. It
was always looking over my shoulder, but she was
very good. She taught English in high school for
any number of years. In high school, describe that
A&M Consolidated High School in your four years.
As I recall, when
I went to high school in 35, 36, the superintendent
was Mr. James H. Sykes, who
was elated over the fact that he had hired two
recent graduates from Southwestern University.
One was I.D. Hoke and the other one was Thomas
Ferguson. To come, Mr. Hoke taught social studies
and Mr. Ferguson taught science. And I think, and
they were to inaugurate a football team. And I
think the first team played about four games, and
then later it gradually increased as the years
progressed. And Mr. Hope left someplace, and Mr.
Ferguson later became on the faculty at A&M. One
other teacher that I recall was Caroline
Mitchell, who taught math, in in high school and
she was an excellent teacher now this is jw
mitchell's daughter this is the caroline
mitchell that you and i both knew and she worked in
the registrar's office describe her please as a
teacher her personality she was the most patient
person you ever saw and she was an excellent
teacher and she would explain it and then if you
uh... grasp it and reported it to back to her she
would qualify you she was an excellent teacher as
well as Mr. Mitchell he was known for his uh... math
contest when he was in A&M among the students he
uh... inaugurated he called them in honor of mr.
they called him mr. Bobby Smith a famous math
teacher at A&M and he would have these calculus
contests and all and they would award watches and
to the winners and all, and he would coach those
students. And he started that at A&M. That was Mr.
Mitchell. Well, Caroline later
taught at other schools in the state and then came
back to A&M as the academic advisor for the
transfer students, something like that. In those
four high school years, as you recall, what kind of
mathematics courses did you all take? We had
Algebra I, II, Plain Geometry, and then senior
year, Solid Geometry and Trigonometry. That's
exactly what I had. Those were the courses. And
what sciences? general science, biology for the
first two years. And then if you were really
inclined, you could take physics. junior and
senior, or junior or senior. And as I recall, our
physics class had opportunity to go adjacent to
the physics building on campus to use the
laboratory. What about chemistry? No chemistry
was taught. No chemistry. And with your father
being an English teacher, what English courses do
you, how much? We had four years of English. One,
two, and, well, four. So that by and large,
everybody at A&M Consolidated High School then
took what we would now call a college prep
curriculum. Exactly. Sixteen credits were
required for entrance to A&M or any other state
school, I think. Now, if you and any of your buddies
were wanting to create some mischief when you were
in high school, what would that consist of? Maybe
rolling the trash can down the stairs. That was
done on numerous occasions because we had Stairs,
no elevators, and it was just a two-story building
and a big trash can and all. But there wasn't really
a great deal of that. Do you remember anybody, any
of the high school kids attempting to smoke? Oh, I
think that, oh, they had access. Well, I remember I
had an occasion, too, when... some of these rural
children introduced me at the Christmas tree to
chewing tobacco. It was quite an occasion. It was
remembered and never tried again. Did your
stomach reject? It did. That's a terrible
feeling. As far as you recall, what were the either
clearly defined or clearly not defined but
clearly understood rules of conduct that you got
from your parents?
Well, the rule at home was you observe student. And
if you got in trouble at school while you had a
second opportunity
to redeem yourself, if you want to call it that, but
it also meant you had second punishment if you had
to stay in school for whatever reason at all,
otherwise you had to answer then to the family
situation. Where in those years, where did
someone get an alcoholic drink in Brazos County?
In those years, as I recall, the closest to A&M were
two places. There was Uncle Ed Hardlicker on
Weldon Road. who naturally made, believe it or
not, once he said, believe it or not, Ed Hardaker,
College Station, Texas, sells soft drinks. But at
the East Gate was, there was a cafe over there that
had beer. Of course, that came in during First
administration between 32 to 36, something like
that. Now, the county was dry for whiskey, and you
would have to go across to Burleson County to buy
anything. In that era, was it called Whiskey
Bridge? Whiskey Bridge was out 60, as I recall, and
a little store just across the river there. But was
it called that then? It was. It was a bridge and
then... There was another one across Highway 21.
And I've forgotten the name of that. Avalon. That
was the Avalon Club. I think they had package
stores out there. And then later, the Smetana
Precinct in Brazos County was one of the first to go
wet. And then naturally, it increased. The whole
county became. All right, let's go back to
football. You mentioned that football started
when you were in ninth, 10th grade? The 8th grade,
9th, 10th, 11th were our four senior years. So I
think it started that year or the next year, but as I
recall it was in 36 or 37. And where did you all play
your Kyle Field practice field? Not the main
field, but the practice field. They would permit
us to go down there. What about baseball and
basketball games? Where were they played?
Basketball games from high school were played in
the little gym that they called, it was a big wooden
gym and then sometimes for the bigger games they
would get the main floor in the old DeWare Field
House. But there used to be a little gym next where
the swimming pool is and of course that's gone now.
There was a wooden gymnasium there that had
handball courts and a wooden floor, I mean a
basketball court too. And we would go down there
because it was usually open. They couldn't very
well close it. And one of our favorite pastimes was
playing on that wooden floor what we called Tin Can
Shinny on roller skates. It's kind of a modified
hockey game. Mm-hmm. And Mr. Ashford, who was in
charge of the athletic facilities there, would
come in one door and we would go out the other door
when he wanted to terminate our activities. Where
did you and your buddies go swimming? Go where?
Swimming. There was a swimming pool in the old YMCA
building, in the basement there before it became a
bowling alley. There was a swimming pool there
before they had the main swimming pool at... P.L.
Downs. P.L. Downs, an auditorium there. We would
go to that YMCA building, all right now let's move
you up to college do you recall there ever being any
doubt as to where you would go to college no doubt
whatsoever the only doubt i had was would i be able
to make the grades that first semester and that was
my main concern because i knew where i would go and
of course it in those times uh The, on the horizon
was war and all and you just, that's where you would
go to school. Where did you, where did you live as a
student? I lived at home part of the time and then
towards the junior year while I went to the
dormitory and lived in the dormitory. Right.
Please describe what it was like to be a home
residing freshman in the Corps. Well, I had a lot of
friends. I made friends because I took liberal
arts, and there was a core of us liberal arts
students. That means pre-law students or
economics majors or things like that because you
had no business school or anything like that.
Well, you did have the Agriculture
Administration, but I made friends my first
semester, and I was always, I enjoyed inviting
them over to the house, and we'd study. around the
dining room table for a quiz, a letter quiz or a
final quiz. And I made lots of contacts in that I
maintain and still know many of those fellows
today. So you enrolled as a freshman in the fall of
39. 39.
So you're enrolling as a freshman as the war is
beginning in Europe. Correct. The, now I'm
assuming, that with your father looking over your
shoulder, that you had no grade troubles,
did anybody ever give you, any sophomore or junior
or senior, ever give you a hard time because you
were a faculty brat? No, I don't recall it. They
would pump me for information quite a bit, and I was
fairly well accepted, and I would take some
fatherless...